Welcome back.
I am going to intro you to balsamic which is a wire framing tool that we spent cake use all the time.
Bosonic is by far my favorite tool for wireframe framing and it's my favorite for two reasons.
One is that it's very simple to use.
You can pick it up very quickly.
I really don't think you need to spend hours and hours with it.
You can really learn it over the course of 15 20 minutes.
There are a lot of tools out there that help you wireframe but they try to make their systems way too
advanced.
My experience you don't end up using 90 percent of the features that you try to give you.
And again you really don't want to have to spend a large amount of time trying to figure out just how
to wireframe.
The second reason why I like balsamic is that they have a sketch kind of design to their system and
you'll see this in just a second.
So when you're designing wireframe it looks kind of like you sketched it out on a piece of paper.
I really like that and our clients really like that.
It just kind of looks quirky and cool and it kind of does look like you made it on a scratch pad.
I also like how this scatch kind of look to it makes it kind of feel like you know this is a wireframe.
We don't need to take it too seriously and it kind of conveys that the developer or your designer should
really kind of give you the benefit the doubt.
This is not an exact design of what you want and I kind of like that one downside of balsamic old Mint
is that they do cost money and I believe one user license is $79 which is kind of expensive for a wireframe
tool.
There are other services out there that are cheaper but unfortunately I'm not aware of any that are
free right now.
It used to be the case that Mockingbird was a free wireframe framing tool that was available and I originally
planned on making a lecture on that if you guys really do want me to do a lecture on another wire framing
tool that I'm not unaware of.
Just make sure the message me and let me know and I'll put it up there because I prefer if you guys
have a free version but currently I just simply don't know of version.
So let's just dive right into it.
All right.
This is what balsamic looks like.
Pretty simple.
You have essentially designs up at the top and these represent kind of all of the common elements that
you'd be using in a web site or a mobile application wireframe you want to do mobile a section for iPhone.
You want to do.
Let's see if you want to make a form go to forms and have everything right here that you need.
Now what you simply do is you would drag and drop it into the canvas down here and this is the canvas.
So here we go here's a button you can scale it just like any other type of design application to make
the button look like whatever you want.
So one of the things about bosonic that I will admit is the negative is that they put everything into
sections and sometimes it's actually kind of difficult to find things.
That's something that I've kind of experienced so what the remedy for this is I get better at learning
the names of everything.
So you can search for it like for instance if you wanted to make say a Facebook share button.
OK.
How would you do that.
So do you have a button but there's no way that this really could represent a Facebook share about way
you actually have to do it as you have to look for an icon.
So just look for icon an icon and text label or just go with Icon.
We got the text label so here you go it gives you a blank space and a name.
And now if you want to bring an icon at this little user interface pops up and you can search for it
or you can click this button to open their icon library.
Now this loads.
This is what their icon library looks like.
They have tons and tons of things in here.
Let's see there's the Reddit icon.
Here is the YouTube.
Pretty much anything you could think of.
And they're all kind of in this quirky kind of sketch style which is very popular.
So if I want to do Facebook and you couldn't find it you could either just go to social or you could
search it down here.
It is Facebook.
All right.
And then you can change the name but just double tapping and we'll just say how can you say share whatever
doesn't look exactly like what it would look like on an actual application.
But that's not the point.
You just want to convey to your designer convey to a developer what exactly you want in the area they'll
deal with the rest of it.
All right.
Now if you wanted to add text.
Another tricky part and this is why I'm kind of tackling this up front.
I wanted to add tax there is a section called text can also search for text search for tax though you
know this is a little confusing I just want to make a line.
I just want to type something you notice over here a section called text.
You just need to know this it's actually string label or string of text.
Drag and drop that in.
Now you have some text I can type whatever I want.
Some text now with some text.
This is how you would modify it.
And this goes for pretty much any element you put on your canvas.
Your button is going to pop up and you to be able to edit it over here.
Same with our icon same and virtually the same features.
Well pop up over here if you want to copy whatever you made here is a duplicate Here's a cut.
And here is your copy paste and you can trash it.
We'll get to grouping here in a second.
Now I've created some text.
And what I want to do with it I can change the orientation.
Here I can use the state and state just means that if I know normal disabled if I disable it.
What that basically means is that when I go and save my balsamic as a PDA for P and G or J pag or whatever
it's not going to show up.
And so this can be helpful sometimes if you're copying large bits of wireframe over and using them over
and over again and sometimes you just want to disable it or sometimes you want to disable something
just so it helps you see something else that it might be covering.
But if you want it to happen you want it to be there.
Make sure that it's checked as normal link you can link to another.
You can link to a web page.
You can turn this into a link so that when you save it as a PDA the person that has it can click it
and it can take them somewhere here.
Regular text editing features you can make it bold italic underline etc. etc..
Here's what you change the size.
You can also change your size over here.
I prefer not to play with this but this is much more exact.
This will resize it in a way that you kind of can't really get when you're picking just these increments.
So I would typically stick to this.
What will happen oftentimes is see how it went from some text to some.
Because I went to large I can open the container and the container large enough to show what the actual
content in the element is.
If you want to duplicate items you will do as you can duplicate creates a copy of it when you move things
around it will show you grid lines relative relative to whatever else is on your canvas.
Now if I wanted to say Copy two things I could hit the key and select both.
Now if I get duplicate it's going to duplicate both the interesting one thing what will happen also
is if I am duplicating an item and it's notice it's a pattern in their online media look at this.
It should show below it.
Wow.
All right.
Well sometimes that works sometimes it doesn't.
OK.
There you go.
And keep doing that all day.
System isn't totally foolproof.
You'll notice that it has some quirks to it.
No but the point is it's still very simple and easy to use.
Do you want to include links to text that show link makes something look like a link type in your link.
I can show you some of these other things.
This is called bread crumbs bread crumbs of the things you expect to see at the top of a Web site that
shows you you know where in the sub page of the website you are.
I don't usually include those unless I'm trying to be really specific with my wireframe if you want
to make a you want to make a wireframe for a mobile application.
You just start right here.
Good.
IPhone and iPhone you have right here an actual iPhone.
Again it has that kind of goofy sketch style to it.
So on the iPhone you'll notice that you can expand it make it larger but it has a minimum.
It should have a.
So I can't make a guinea iPhone.
It'll always be proportional.
But regardless and there's also a maximum size that you'll hit something like.
And then what you can do is you can kind of make screens of your mobile application if you want.
There's some easy to use things that pop these in here like there's an iPhone keyboard and I can put
together a quick alert screen and then whenever you're trying to edit something with balsamic it might
look like it's not particularly polished.
It's kind of the design they're going for but you'll notice that like for instance how do I change.
Alert alert text Texaco's here.
No and yes I notice that there's three lines.
And so anything I do on the second line is going to modify the subtitle of the alert anything I modify
in the top line is going to modify the top line and you get the point.
Third the third one will change the buttons.
Now if I wanted to go ahead and make multiple screens of this there's two ways of doing it I could go
to the bottom and create a new mockup.
So you do as you click.
So that'll create a new screen and I can go go and create a new screen.
Well you can also do is go up to file and then do new clone of current mockup and Shokri.
OK so now you see that we've moved to a new page with the exact same thing.
So that's one way of doing.
Showing incremental changes.
Sometimes you can do is you can show one screen write some text over here explaining it and maybe you
want to have multiple screens of the same kind of design with text next to it.
There's a lot of ways you can use this.
You can also just so I will not save that because I don't want it.
You can also do is if I want to copy this.
And typically when I make wire frames I'll be honest I actually make a lot of them all within the same
canvas.
And the way that you would just do it is you just build out to one side or build down because it's an
infinite canvas.
So what I could do is if I wanted to copy everything here I going to select everything was shift key.
OK.
And then I can copy it just duplicate everything.
Now I have another one.
One thing that I think is quite useful is this thing called the group where you can use in group and
ungroup.
So say I want all three of these things.
I made the iPhone the alert message and the keyboard to be associated together.
What I might do is just lock them together so that I don't have to constantly hit shift and click every
single thing I can just group them together and see how the color change happened.
So now I can exit out.
I don't need to select it.
Oh sorry.
Exit out with clicking outside the canvas click it.
And look now I can move the whole thing.
That's because here.
I can only move one thing.
One thing that you can do.
And guys keep in mind you really don't need to make this look to the TV.
Perfect when you make a balsamic wireframe.
What I like to do is I'll make arrows and we typically with erro you call it a shape use a geometric
shape.
So it starts out as a circle.
Here again is one way to do it.
All I can do like that and I think that looks kind of cool because what you do is you can look at it
and go oh first screen second screen right.
Or obviously you can just do it with an icon
or an icon over and let's make an arrow out of it.
Search for arrow shows me direction or direction or what you want to make that larger Go sell on it
go.
Now you can't miss it.
OK.
That is I mean Bosnak is like saying very simple so there's not a ton of explanation that needs to go
with this.
And you might be looking at this and saying wow it is really basic How am I supposed to make a web site.
And it you know at first it is a little bit complicated but you'll notice the more and more you play
with it.
It really does have everything you want covered.
So to prove my point I can go ahead and make a web site.
I'm going to make a copy of YouTube and YouTube when I speak for you too I'm not talking on the home
page and talking about what the screen looks like when you're actually viewing a sub page.
So I would go to all the browser window and the browser window I can type in you too.
And there you go see it shows it up in YouTube.
It's expand the size
you know.
OK now let's make something like where you'd watch the videos or as the media player in the media media
is where you're going to insert pretty much anything you want like can be associated with images.
There's a progress bar has a street map so pull this out and see it.
That's like a Google Maps street map.
It is a video player.
To say that this is you know where you watch videos.
So let's say we're going to put a search bar at the top.
You can use the search bar.
Let's just call the search box on the top where you would be searching for your videos.
Let's see.
I love this about bosonic.
You can just use icons and they have a lot of the logos that you would commonly use like they have the
Twitter logo and the Instagram logo and pretty much everything you'd want for the most common social
platforms that like now am or logo YouTube.
It's like that little section over here where you chose you suggested videos.
Now what I would do for that concert thumbnails so use an image images just like boxes which is perfect
for what we want.
Just call it videos of it and our developer graphic designer knows what that is.
Now with Image placeholders what you can do is you can add borders and you can actually upload images
and insert them into balsamic So you do as you just double tap it or browse for a file.
Everybody loves cats.
So we use cats.
This is a cool feature I like.
You can just sketch it.
So if I don't get it it's gonna insert this image with all color.
You know look kind of weird the whole black and white thing going on so I'll just say sketch it.
I say load now.
There goes.
Now let's try to put it back into the size that you'd expect.
And so it looks weird.
Now we want to put let's put a border on it and it'll look better.
There you.
Now looks kind of like one of those videos you'd have suggested to you.
Now it's out the text that you would go next to it.
So we had no idea what the string string of tax put it as the title
of Cananea super super original.
And since it's the title I want to make it bold it's increased the size.
So we put
it now you can use your keyboard to to move things around.
So if I just go left it's going to be one pixel left right up or down point and then right below that.
See now for want of a text right below it.
I want to do is it duplicate.
Put it right below it and change it.
It's called by I'll just call it the cat person person because everybody knows a cat person but nobody
knows a cat person person.
The animal make it smaller.
Remove the bolding and you go and lets put a view counter.
That's usually just a number.
So let's say a million people watch this video.
And that is a little bit smaller.
I think it's pretty believable.
So what I'm going to do is I want to create this little grouping and I want to make it go all the way
down the screen which is typically what you see in YouTube.
So we do it in a group these together.
Very We do group we group.
Now they're together.
Now when I copy my group and even exit out it doesn't really matter.
Coffee my group blog you match the grades up and you go there are suggested videos.
Now maybe I wanted to put a container around that something light and just go to shape again.
How a shape.
I am just going to pick a rectangle right here right here.
I want to expand it over to notice so it covered it.
Now they bosonic has a layering kind of like Photoshop.
You use Photoshop for it has layers.
The way that you would want this to fade to the back is you would use this little subgroup.
This will send it back one.
This will send it all the way to the back so this will be the bottom of your.
Imagine this is kind of like paper laying on top of each other.
This would be the bottom piece of paper you could this.
If you cook this it's going to bring all the way to the top so it's going to cover anything behind it.
I just want to send it back.
Intel it's behind the cat videos.
But it's in front of the actual background that we established.